#  Module 2 review

Congratulations on completing Module 2 on Docker & Kubernetes for Course 5. You’ve learned more about Docker and Kubernetes and about using these platforms to run applications in containers. This module walked you through the steps for installing Docker and Kubernetes to your machine—if they weren’t installed already—and explored different attributes of each.

You explored Docker images and their importance in enabling programmers to package, distribute, and deploy applications efficiently. In addition, you discovered why developers use multiple containers with a large application to test the entirety of an application. Speaking of testing, you examined build artifacts and the importance of testing them to troubleshoot any issues discovered to ensure a quality product. Build artifacts are what you build during the development process and include libraries, documentation, and scripts, with the main artifact being your Docker container. Typically, developers use GCP while working with Docker containers as it provides services to support containerized applications.

Kubernetes is another type of container you explored that provides developers with choice and flexibility when building platforms. It's designed to support developers with starting, stopping, storing, building, and managing containers. Kubernetes includes pods that are the fundamental deployment unit in a cluster, and they contain one or more containers. You learned that services offer an abstract layer over pods. In addition, services provide a stable virtual IP and DNS name for each set of related pods. You examined Kubernetes deployment and how it acts as your application’s manager and is responsible for keeping your application up and running smoothly.

And lastly, you looked at how to deploy Docker containers and Kubernetes clusters to GCP. Different types of clusters include: on-premises, public and private cloud managed, local, and hybrid clusters. Kubernetes clusters are robust, flexible, and reliable units of multiple nodes that work together. You looked at the benefits of deploying and scaling Docker containers on GCP and how Kubernetes YAML files define and configure Kubernetes resources. Scaling containers allow developers to add containers as needed or allocate additional resources to each container. YAML files allow developers to manage their applications’ infrastructure in a consistent and automated manner. You explored the importance of container security and actions you should take to secure your workload and network, and you also explored the actions GCP takes to secure infrastructure and operations. In addition, you learned about the best practices provided by GCP for protecting the containers you work with. Now you’re ready to master the Module 2 assessment and then move on to the next module! Good luck!
