# Module 4 review

Congratulations on completing the last module for Course 5: Configuration Management and the Cloud. You’re making great progress! You’ve learned so much about the continuous integration and continuous delivery process, which ensures your software functions as expected and any changes made are tested properly. 

You’ve discovered what a CICD pipeline is and the importance of automating the tools to build, test, package, and deploy an application when code changes are integrated. You learned that DevOps tools are the software tools to help you accomplish the automated process throughout the DevOps lifecycle. The tool you use will be dependent on the stage of the lifecycle you are in. Implementing containers in your CI/CD processes can improve collaboration amongst developers and ensure the delivery of efficient and reliable applications. It’s important to run continuous testing as part of a CI/CD pipeline and, depending on your test results, to implement the changes necessary to continually improve efficiency and reduce errors.

In addition, you learned about the continuous integration platform, Github, and the benefits it provides to the coding community. You also explored Cloud Build—a CI/CD service—provided by GCP, its core components, and the benefits of using Cloud Build to automate building, testing, and deploying code changes to various environments. You examined CI best practices including automated building, testing, and version control system integration. And you looked at CI testing to detect and correct bugs or defects in your code to ensure your codebase stays stable and manageable.

You acquired skills in continuous delivery and the iterative development cycle. You learned that CD is essential with CI and automated testing and that the use of feature flags, increment rollout, and blue-green deployments will minimize problems that are commonly caused by human error. In addition, you learned that Github supports CI/CD tools by providing webhooks and APIs and allows those tools to become part of the pull request process. You looked at how value stream mapping optimizes the flow of materials and information required to successfully deliver a product to clients and how configuration management provides a solution to simplify and effectively manage changes to code.

Lastly, you looked at end-to-end tests and how they’re a comprehensive evaluation of an application that mimic real-world use. You explored the four different types of releases and the management that must be used to ensure an effective release. You also now know that if a software incident occurs, you can conduct a post-mortem, or incident analysis, to determine what happened, how it happened, and how to create a solution to prevent disruptions in the future.
